Alteration

“Magic is, by its very nature, volatile and dangerous. Unless you can control it, it can and will destroy you."

Flesh spells have been significantly buffed. Dragonhide now benefits from Mage Armor.
Shield spells allow the player to choose between Fire, Frost, Shock, or Poison for a short time.
Utility spells allow the player to open locks, fortify carry weight, and walk on water.
Several debuffs that were considered to be Destruction spells in previous games (Weakness to Fire, Disintegrate Weapon, Corrode Armor) have been reinterpreted as Alteration spells.
Mark and Recall spells allow for quick travel around Skyrim.

Spell List

Novice

Oakflesh - Improves armor by 40 points for 60 seconds.
Open Novice Lock - For 60 seconds, instantly open any Novice lock.
Candlelight - Creates a hovering light that lasts for 180 seconds.
Waterbreathing -Allows the caster to breathe underwater for 60 seconds.

Apprentice

Stoneflesh - Improves armor by 80 points for 60 seconds.
Damage Weapon - Touch enemies in melee range to reduce their weapon damage by 10% for 30 seconds.
Damage Armor - Touch enemies in melee range to reduce their armor by 100 for 30 seconds.
Open Apprentice Lock - For 60 seconds, instantly open any Apprentice lock.
Feather - Increases carry weight by 100 for 60 seconds.
Windwalker - You move 10% faster for 60 seconds.
Buoyancy - For 60 seconds, you swim twice as fast.
Magelight - Launches a hovering ball of light that lasts for 180 seconds.
Ash Shell - Encases enemies in ash for 15 seconds.*

Adept

Ironflesh - Improves armor by 120 points for 60 seconds.
Fire Shell - Increases Fire Resistance by 50% for 60 seconds.
Frost Shell - Increases Frost Resistance by 50% for 60 seconds.
Shock Shell - Increases Shock Resistance by 50% for 60 seconds.
Poison Shell - Increases Poison Resistance by 50% for 60 seconds.
Disintegrate Weapon - A blast of raw magic that reduces enemy weapon damage by 15% for 30 seconds.
Corrode Armor - A blast of raw magic that reduces enemy armor by 150 for 30 seconds.
Open Adept Lock - For 60 seconds, instantly open any Adept lock.
Slowfall - You take no fall damage for 60 seconds.
Sea Stride - You can walk on water for 60 seconds.
Telekinesis - Levitates objects, allowing the caster to deal damage by launching them at foes.
Transmutation - Transmutes one piece of unrefined iron ore into silver ore, and one unrefined piece of silver ore into gold ore.*
Whirlwind Cloak - For 60 seconds, targets in melee range have a chance to be flung away.*
Ash Cloud - Creates a rune that explodes when enemies approach, encasing enemies in ash for 15 seconds.*

Expert

Ebonyflesh - Improves armor by 160 points for 60 seconds.
Weakness to Fire - Reduces enemy Fire Resistance by 50% for 30 seconds.
Weakness to Frost - Reduces enemy Frost Resistance by 50% for 30 seconds.
Weakness to Shock - Reduces enemy Shock Resistance by 50% for 30 seconds.
Weakness to Poison - Reduces enemy Poison Resistance by 50% for 30 seconds.
Greater Disintegration - A blast of raw magic that reduces enemy weapon damage by 20% for 30 seconds.
Greater Corrosion - A blast of raw magic that reduces enemy armor by 200 for 30 seconds.
Disintegration Rune  - Creates a rune that explodes when enemies approach, reducing enemy weapon damage by 25% for 30 seconds.
Corrosion Rune - Creates a rune that explodes when enemies approach, reducing enemy armor by 250 for 30 seconds.
Open Expert Lock - For 60 seconds, instantly open any Expert lock.
Pack Mule - Increases carry weight by 200 for 60 seconds.
Windrunner - You move 20% faster for 60 seconds.
Mark - Marks a location for recall.
Recall - Teleports the caster to their marked location.
Equilibrium - Sacrifices Health for a moderate amount of Magicka.*
Shalidor’s Beacon - Teleports the caster to the College of Winterhold.*
Ash Rune - Creates a rune that explodes when enemies approach, encasing enemies in ash for 15 seconds.*

Master

Dragonhide - Improves armor by 200 points for 60 seconds.
Flame Shield - Increases Fire Resistance by 75% for 60 seconds.
Ice Shield - Increases Frost Resistance by 75% for 60 seconds.
Lightning Shield - Increases Shock Resistance by 75% for 60 seconds.
Venom Shield - Increases Poison Resistance by 75% for 60 seconds.
Sword Breaker - An explosion of raw magic that reduces enemy weapon damage by 25% for 30 seconds.
Armor Eater - An explosion of raw magic that reduces enemy armor by 250 for 30 seconds.
The Unwelcome Guest - For 60 seconds, instantly open any Master lock.
Grand Telekinesis - Levitates creatures and people, allowing the caster to launch them for massive damage.
Cinder Storm - Encases all enemies in a large area in ash for 15 seconds.*

* Spells marked by a * are not available from normal vendors.


Conjuration

“You deal with powerful forces. Take care they do not overwhelm you.”

New Conjuration spells allow you to summon ghostly predators, Dremora mages, and skeleton warriors.
Rare spells hidden in unique places around the world allow Conjuration mages to summon ancestral ghosts, dwarven spiders, and even daedric Lurkers.
Reanimation spells increase both their magnitude and their duration when dual cast.
Banish Daedra is now a potent defense against Daedra of all kinds.
New high-level bound weapons make Conjuration mages deadly in melee combat.

Spell List

Novice

Conjure Spectral Wolf - Summons a Spectral Wolf for 60 seconds wherever the caster is pointing.
Conjure Skeleton - Summons a Skeleton for 60 seconds wherever the caster is pointing.
Raise Zombie - Reanimates a corpse up to level 8 for 60 seconds.
Bound Sword - Conjures a lesser Daedra in the form of a sword for 60 seconds.
Bound Dagger - Conjures a lesser Daedra in the form of a dagger for 60 seconds.

Apprentice

Conjure Spectral Dire Wolf - Summons a Spectral Alpha Wolf for 60 seconds wherever the caster is pointing.
Conjure Flame Atronach - Summons a Flame Atronach for 60 seconds wherever the caster is pointing.